NOTE: This file documents how to set up a wikifarm on a plain Linux system, like the Ubuntu Lucid image available on AWS.

<i>An even quicker method is to "use a pre-built AMI":ami.textile.</i>

Create instance (if you are installing on AWS).

* use ami-714ba518
* Select a suitable private key, so you can log in
* Select a security policy with ports 22, 80, and 443 open

Create a privileged user called "ubuntu" (if you used ami-714ba518, you can skip this step.)

<pre>
  sudo useradd ubuntu
  sudo usermod -a -G adm ubuntu

  # This should print "ok" without asking for ubuntu's password:
  sudo -u ubuntu sudo -k echo ok
  # If not, use visudo to add "ubuntu  ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD:ALL" to sudoers.
</pre>

Update your OS

<pre>
  sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade
</pre>

Add the mediawiki-lts PPA

<pre>
  sudo apt install software-properties-common
  sudo add-apt-repository ppa:legoktm/mediawiki-lts
  sudo apt update
</pre>

Add the wikifarm repository to your apt sources

<pre>
  wget -q -O- http://apt.clinicalfuture.com/clinicalfuture-key.gpg | sudo apt-key add -
  echo deb http://apt.clinicalfuture.com/wikifarm lucid main | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/wikifarm.list
  sudo apt update
</pre>

Install and enable wikifarm

<pre>
  sudo apt-get install wikifarm
  sudo a2dissite 000-default.conf
  sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart
</pre>

Create and customize /etc/wikifarm/config.php -- in particular, to
ensure the oauth2 login process works correctly:
* set uri_scheme to "https" if you are using SSL.
* set servername to your.canonical.host.name.

<pre>
  sudo cp -i /etc/wikifarm/config.php.example /etc/wikifarm/config.php
  sudo nano /etc/wikifarm/config.php
</pre>

Create an administrator account

* Visit http://{your.wiki.farm}
* Log in with your oauth2
* Copy your oauth ID from the "my account" screen
* Run: @/etc/wikifarm/make_admin_user.php YOUR-OAUTH-ID@
* Provide your email address and real name on the "my account" page
* Click "Save changes"

Make sure /var/lib/wikifarm/www/mediawiki/AdminSettings.php contains
credentials for a privileged database user. Normally this is
accomplished by the wikifarm installer. Example:

<pre>
 <?php
 $wgDBadminuser = 'root';
 $wgDBadminpassword = 'YOUR.MYSQL.ROOT.PW';
 ?>
</pre>

Create the base wiki config and database

* Visit @http://{your.wiki.farm}/00@ and click "set up the wiki". Fill in the form:
* database name "wikidb00"
* User account for installation:
* provide the database username/password you used when installing mysql-server
* Database account for web access: uncheck the box "Use the same account as for installation"
** db username "wikiuser"
** db password "wikipass"
* wiki name: Wiki (won't be used)
* Your username: WikiSysop
* random password for WikiSysop (minimum 10 characters, won't be used)
* Click "Install MediaWiki!"

If MediaWiki provided LocalSettings.php via browser download, copy it
to /home/ubuntu/00-LocalSettings.php on the server now.

<pre>
  scp ~/Downloads/LocalSettings.php ubuntu@WIKIFARM:00-LocalSettings.php
</pre>

Copy the config file to the template wiki and lock it down

<pre>
  /etc/wikifarm/wikifarm-template-save
</pre>

Configure your server so it can send email notifications

* If you are using AWS, use a smarthost or attach an elastic IP address to your instance.
* Example:
  sudo dpkg-reconfigure exim4-config

(Optional) install mediawiki-math

<pre>
  sudo apt-get install mediawiki-math
</pre>

(Optional) create an AMI

* Delete any OpenID accounts you created during testing/setup:
  sqlite3 /var/lib/wikifarm/db/wikis.db 'delete from users; delete from usergroups;'
* Delete some history, cache, etc.

<pre>
        sudo apt-get clean
        rm -rf ~/.*_history ~/.cache ~/.sudo_as*
        unset HISTFILE
        exit
</pre>

* Shut down (not terminate) your instance
* Create an AMI from your instance (takes ~ 1/2 hour)
* Start an instance using the new AMI and test it (see README-ami)

Turn off deleteOnTermination attribute on your EBS volume

* Make sure your workstation is >= lucid
* Determine your instance id, EBS volume id, and root filesystem device
  (perhaps using "ec2-describe-instances -v")
* Turn off deleteOnTermination flag:
  ec2-modify-instance-attribute i-ef5eb785 -b /dev/sda1=vol-9a1980f3:false -v

(Optional) switch to SSL

* Create/obtain a signed site certificate
* Enable ssl:
<pre>
  sudo a2enmod ssl
  sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart
</pre>

Ensure your users always access your server with the same hostname.

* Some OpenID providers (including Google) do not supply the same
  OpenID URL when the same user signs in to different OpenID consumer
  sites. This means your users must always access your wikifarm using
  the same domain name (i.e., only one of "http://example.com",
  "https://secure.example.com", "http://1.2.3.4"). The following code
  can be used in /etc/apache2/sites-available/wikifarm.conf to
  accomplish this.

<pre>
    <Limit GET HEAD>
      RewriteCond %{HTTP_HOST} !your.canonical.host.name
      RewriteRule (.*) https://your.canonical.host.name$1 [R,L]
    </Limit>
</pre>

Create wiki number 01 for yourself

* Visit http://{your.wiki.farm} or https://{your.wiki.farm}.
* Click "My Wikis"
* Complete the form
  (Name this wiki "docs" so the link to "/docs/Wiki_Tutorial" on the
  Help tab will work)
* Click "Create new wiki"
* You have Sysop privileges in your new wiki, so you can protect
  pages, edit the MediaWiki:Sidebar page, etc.

(Optional) install other mediawiki extensions

* see "extensions page":extensions.textile

(Optional) improve performance

* see "performance page":performance.textile

(Optional) customize site appearance

* Set site slogan in /etc/wikifarm/config.php
  (see /etc/wikifarm/config.php.example)
* Install logo graphic in /var/lib/wikifarm/www/serverlogo.png
  (64 pixels high for best results)
* Install favicon in /var/lib/wikifarm/www/favicon.ico
  (16x16 pixels for best results)
