---
---

h1. Upgrading MediaWiki

Notes:
* MediaWiki >= 1.18 requires wikifarm >= 0.9 

h3. Version?

<pre>
VERSION=1.18.4
</pre>

h3. Download and extract.

<pre>
cd
wget http://dumps.wikimedia.org/mediawiki/1.18/mediawiki-$VERSION.tar.gz
md5sum mediawiki-$VERSION.tar.gz
</pre>

* @95d7309eb97ea7696f0910b48fad9b0c@ -- mediawiki-1.18.3.tar.gz
* @2af91f83e4a83da15de332e8b309cf7a@ -- mediawiki-1.18.4.tar.gz

<pre>
cd /var/lib/wikifarm/www
tar xzf ~/mediawiki-$VERSION.tar.gz
</pre>

h3. Copy extensions and AdminSettings to new installation.

<pre>
cp -ip mediawiki/AdminSettings.php mediawiki-$VERSION/
rsync -avP mediawiki/extensions/ mediawiki-$VERSION/extensions.migrated/
mv -i mediawiki-$VERSION/extensions.migrated/* mediawiki-$VERSION/extensions/ </dev/null
</pre>

h3. Update symlinks to point to new version.

<pre>
cd /var/lib/wikifarm/www
ln -sfn mediawiki-$VERSION mediawiki
</pre>

h3. Add symlinks for new MW files and run MW upgrade (one test wiki)

<pre>
wikiid=42
(cd $wikiid; ln -s ../mediawiki/* .)
(cd mediawiki-$VERSION/maintenance && sudo -u www-data php update.php --conf /var/lib/wikifarm/www/$wikiid/LocalSettings.php --aconf ../AdminSettings.php)
</pre>

h3. Add symlinks for new MW files and run MW upgrade (all wikis)

<pre>
(
set -e -x
sqlite3 /var/lib/wikifarm/db/wikis.db 'select id from wikis' | while read wikiid; do 
  wikiid=`printf %02d $wikiid`;
  cd /var/lib/wikifarm/www/$wikiid
  ln -s -v ../mediawiki/* . || true
done
)

(
set -e -x
cd /var/lib/wikifarm/www/mediawiki-$VERSION/maintenance
sqlite3 /var/lib/wikifarm/db/wikis.db 'select id from wikis' | while read wikiid; do 
  wikiid=`printf %02d $wikiid`;
  sudo -u www-data php update.php --quick --conf /var/lib/wikifarm/www/$wikiid/LocalSettings.php --aconf ../AdminSettings.php;
done
)
</pre>

h1. Version-specific notes

h3. MediaWiki 1.17 / 1.18

Consider using the Vector skin.  Add to @/var/lib/wikifarm/www/FarmSettings.php@:

<pre>
require_once( "$IP/extensions/Vector/Vector.php" );
$wgVectorUseSimpleSearch = true;
$wgDefaultSkin = 'vector';
</pre>
